Add post about changes to x.py defaults (#666)
rust-lang/blog.rust-lang.org: posts/inside-rust/2020-08-12-changes-to-x-py-defaults.md

---
layout: post
title: "Changes to x.py defaults"
author: Joshua Nelson
team: the compiler team <https://www.rust-lang.org/governance/teams/compiler>
---

> Recently, the defaults for [x.py] - the tool used to [bootstrap] the rust compiler from source - changed. If you regularly contribute to the rust compiler, this might affect your workflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Recently, the defaults for [x.py], the tool used to [bootstrap] the Rust compiler from source, changed. If you regularly contribute to Rust, this might affect your workflow.
```

## What changes were made?

> - The default stage is now dependent on the subcommand.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The default stage is now dependent on the subcommand:
```

  + `dist`: stage 2
  + `build`: stage 1
  + `test`: stage 1
  + `doc`: stage 0

> - stage1 rustc artifacts are no longer built by `x.py build --stage 1`. To get the old behavior back, use `x.py build --stage 1 src/rustc`.

Reviewer 3: ```diff
-stage1 rustc artifacts are ...
+stage1 `rustc` artifacts are ...
```

> - stage1 `rustc` artifacts are no longer built by `x.py build --stage 1`. To get the old behavior back, use `x.py build --stage 1 src/rustc`.

Reviewer 2: Maybe say that `x.py build --stage 1` is equivalent to `x.py build --stage 1 library/libstd`, assuming that's true?

Author: Well, sort of. It's 'everything minus rustc', which includes the standard library, tools, and `rustdoc`. I can add that to the post.

Author: And most tools are disabled by default, so in the common case it's just `library/std` + `rustdoc`.

Reviewer 2: Hm, that seems like an odd default -- I don't think I ever wanted the tools or rustdoc. But whatever.^^

Author: Yeah ... I meant to change it to filter `library/std` in the MCP but by the time I thought of it it had already been accepted :/

Reviewer 2: How hard would it be to change this? If we all agree that to be the sensible choice, maybe we should just do it, even if it requires another MCP.

Author: The implementation shouldn't be too hard. I'm happy to open another MCP but since they take at least 10 days to be accepted I think it would be helpful to publish this blog post first.

Author: I never opened the MCP 🤦 I'll do that now.

Author: https://github.com/rust-lang/compiler-team/issues/351, feel free to second :)

- `debuginfo` now defaults to `1` when `debug = true`. Previously, the default was 2.

## Why were the changes made?

> For a detailed rationale of the changes, as well as more information about the alternatives considered, see

Reviewer 4: It would be nice if there was also just a short sentence or two here summarising the rationale.

Author: Added :)

---
layout: post

> title: "Changes to x.py defaults"

Reviewer 5: Do you want to show `x.py` as code like you did for `rustc`? For reference, that's also how it is in the [docs](https://rustc-dev-guide.rust-lang.org/building/how-to-build-and-run.html#what-is-xpy).

```suggestion
title: "Changes to `x.py` defaults"
```

Author: This is for the title page - I don't think browsers will render text as code in `<title>`, but I could be wrong.

Reviewer 5: Ah, I meant more for the heading, but if this makes the title look weird then it's probably not worth it.

Reviewer 5: Wow, it doesn't even render properly in the heading:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/37223377/91354617-d8b96100-e7a1-11ea-8eab-145f54db9844.png)

Author: Yeah unfortunately it will just show up as backticks.
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/23638587/91354995-884efd00-e7bb-11ea-86d2-60c16b4dc8fc.png)

author: Joshua Nelson
team: the compiler team <https://www.rust-lang.org/governance/teams/compiler>
---

> Recently, the defaults for [x.py], the tool used to [bootstrap] the Rust compiler from source, changed. If you regularly contribute to Rust, this might affect your workflow.

Reviewer 5: Same here if you want to change it (the link at the bottom would also have be to changed).

```suggestion
Recently, the defaults for [`x.py`], the tool used to [bootstrap] the Rust compiler from source, changed. If you regularly contribute to Rust, this might affect your workflow.
```

## What changes were made?

- The default stage is now dependent on the subcommand:
  + `dist`: stage 2
  + `build`: stage 1
  + `test`: stage 1
  + `doc`: stage 0

> - stage1 `rustc` artifacts are no longer built by `x.py build --stage 1`. To get the old behavior back, use `x.py build --stage 1 src/rustc`. The new behavior for `build --stage 1` builds everything except `rustc`, which includes the standard library, `rustdoc`, and various other tools (if the tools are enabled).

Reviewer 5: For consistency with the list above:

```suggestion
- stage 1 `rustc` artifacts are no longer built by `x.py build --stage 1`. To get the old behavior back, use `x.py build --stage 1 src/rustc`. The new behavior for `build --stage 1` builds everything except `rustc`, which includes the standard library, `rustdoc`, and various other tools (if the tools are enabled).
```

- `debuginfo` now defaults to `1` when `debug = true`. Previously, the default was 2.

## Why were the changes made?

Previously, `x.py build` would build `rustc` three separate times:

1. `build/stage0-rustc`
2. `build/stage1-rustc`

> 3. `build/stage2-rustc`

Reviewer 6: This seems false - we only built 2 times, and uplifted stage 1 to stage 2 without full bootstrap being on, IIRC.

Author: Ah hmm I'm confused then - maybe libstd was being built three times? `--stage 2` means that _something_ was built 3 times, because libstd is built during all of stage 0, 1, and 2.

Reviewer 2: As far as I know, the stage 2 libstd "build" is just a copy of the one built for stage 1.

Author: Well my changes seem much less impressive when you put it that way 😆 Updated to only say stage1 rustc/libstd

> Normally, contributors only want to build the compiler once, which lets them test their changes quickly. After this change, that's now the case:

Reviewer 5: Maybe it would be clearer as "that's now the default"?

Author: ```suggestion
Normally, contributors only want to build the compiler once, which lets them test their changes quickly. After this change, that's now the default:
```

> Normally, contributors only want to build the compiler once, which lets them test their changes quickly. After this change, this is in fact what happens:

Reviewer 5: A nit, but it reads better to me as something like:

```suggestion
Normally, contributors only want to build the compiler once, which lets them test their changes quickly. After this change, this is what happens:
```

Author: This doesn't make it clear that the new behavior is the same as the behavior described in the previous sentence. Maybe
```suggestion
Normally, contributors only want to build the compiler once, which lets them test their changes quickly. After this change, that's now the case:
```

1. `build/stage0-rustc`

`debuginfo = 2` generates several gigabytes of debug information,
making the previous default settings for `debug = true` very painful.

For a detailed rationale of the changes, as well as more information about the alternatives considered, see

- [the MCP]
- the [implementation PR]
- the [Zulip stream]

> [x.py]: https://rustc-dev-guide.rust-lang.org/building/how-to-build-and-run.html#what-is-xpy

Reviewer 5: So that the link still works:

```suggestion
[`x.py`]: https://rustc-dev-guide.rust-lang.org/building/how-to-build-and-run.html#what-is-xpy
```
